README.md, before:

# skill-progress

A microservice that generates composite SVG images from a skill icon/logo and a progress bar showing proficiency level (1–5). Optimized for [skill-icons](https://github.com/tandpfun/skill-icons) but supports arbitrary image URLs. Icons can be SVG, PNG, or JPG.

Example:

![JavaScript – level 4](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=4&size=48)
![TypeScript – level 5](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=ts&level=5&size=48)
![React – level 4](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=4&size=48)
![Convex – level 3](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&level=3&size=48)

## Parameters

| Parameter     | Type   | Required | Description |
| ------------- | ------ | -------- | ----------- |
| `skill`       | string | one of   | Skill name from [skill-icons](https://github.com/tandpfun/skill-icons) or a custom skill (e.g. `convex`). Either `skill` or `image` must be provided. |
| `image`       | string | one of   | URL of an arbitrary icon image. Either `skill` or `image` must be provided. |
| `level`       | number | yes      | Proficiency level from **1** to **5**. |
| `size`        | number | no       | Output size in pixels. **16–512**, default **48**. |
| `style`       | string | no       | Progress bar style. One of `rounded` (default) or `flat`. |
| `startColor`  | string | no*      | Progress bar gradient start color: 3 or 6 digit hex **without** `#`. Must be used together with `endColor`. |
| `endColor`    | string | no*      | Progress bar gradient end color: 3 or 6 digit hex **without** `#`. Must be used together with `startColor`. |

\* `startColor` and `endColor` must both be provided or both omitted.

## Usage

A public instance is hosted at:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress
```

You can use it directly in your markdown or HTML by adding query parameters for your desired skill and level.

### Basic: skill + level

Using a skill name from [skill-icons](https://github.com/tandpfun/skill-icons):

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5
```

![JavaScript – level 5](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5&size=48)

Other examples:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=ts&level=3
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=4
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&level=2
```

![TypeScript – level 3](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=ts&level=3&size=48)
![React – level 4](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=4&size=48)
![Convex – level 2](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&level=2&size=48)

### Custom image URL

Use any image URL instead of a named skill:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?image=https://example.com/my-icon.svg&level=3
```

### Custom output size

Control the output size (16–512 px, default 48):

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=4&size=64
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=5&size=128
```

![JavaScript – level 4, size 64](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=4&size=64)
![React – level 5, size 128](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=5&size=128)

### Custom progress bar colors

Override the default yellow-to-green gradient. Pass 3- or 6-digit hex **without** the `#`; both colors are required:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5&startColor=ff6b6b&endColor=4ecdc4
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=ts&level=5&startColor=f00&endColor=00f
```

![JavaScript – custom colors](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5&startColor=ff6b6b&endColor=4ecdc4&size=48)
![TypeScript – custom colors](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=ts&level=5&startColor=f00&endColor=00f&size=48)

### Progress bar style

Choose between rounded and flat styles. Default is `rounded`:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5&style=flat
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=4&style=rounded
```

![JavaScript – flat style](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5&style=flat&size=48)
![React – rounded style](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=4&style=rounded&size=48)

### Combined example

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&level=4&size=96&startColor=667eea&endColor=764ba2
```

![Convex – combined example](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&level=4&size=96&startColor=667eea&endColor=764ba2)

## Development

### Installing dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### Deploy on Netlify (recommended)

The app runs as a Netlify Function. Deploy by connecting this repo to [Netlify](https://netlify.com); build command and functions are configured in `netlify.toml`.

- **Function URL:** `/.netlify/functions/progress`
- **Example:** `https://your-site.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5`

Test locally with Netlify CLI:

```bash
npm run netlify:dev
# Then open http://localhost:8888/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5
```

### Local Express server

Run the classic Express server for local development:

```bash
npm run dev
# Then open http://localhost:3000/progress?skill=js&level=5
```

## Custom skill icons

Custom icons are those not in the official skill-icons repo (maintainers have stopped accepting PRs). Additional icons are welcome via PRs to this repo.

| Name    | Image |
| ------- | ----- |
| `convex` | <img src="img/Convex-Dark.svg" width="48"></img> |

## Planned improvements

Done:
- [x] Allow custom progress bar colors
- [x] Custom output size (generate at 48×48 then resize)
- [x] Cache skill-icons
- [x] Native support for [simple-icons](https://github.com/simple-icons/simple-icons)

New Features:
- [ ] Skill level 0? (potential use case is for generating icon without a progress bar at all - this could allow people to contribute icons to my library since the skill-icons maintainers no longer accept new icons)
- [ ] Add more custom icons (can scrape the PRs on the skill-icons repo and add all the icons that the maintainer won't accept on that project)
- [ ] Allow for labels and use of emojis as progress bar [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24768630/is-there-a-way-to-show-a-progressbar-on-github-wiki/61857070#61857070](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24768630/is-there-a-way-to-show-a-progressbar-on-github-wiki/61857070#61857070)
- [ ] Generate SVGs from scratch so that any percentage can be used, instead of just the 1-5 steps.
- [ ] Add support for additional input image types (webp, etc.)
- [ ] Vertical progress bar option (to left/right of image).
- [ ] Base route should redirect to project homepage on github instead of 404

Cache:
- [ ] Store expiration time of cache instead of calculating on every request.
- [ ] Garbage collect expired cache entries even if they have not been requested and refreshed.
- [ ] Upper bounds on cache size, delete oldest entries when size limit reached.

Maintenance:
- [ ] Create YAML forms for issue template [https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/syntax-for-issue-forms](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/syntax-for-issue-forms) example: [https://github.com/simple-icons/simple-icons/blob/develop/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/icon_request.yml](https://github.com/simple-icons/simple-icons/blob/develop/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/icon_request.yml)

Commit message:

Make level param optional, return icon only when no level provided

README.md, after:

# skill-progress

A microservice that generates SVG images from a skill icon/logo, optionally with a progress bar showing proficiency level (1-5). Optimized for [skill-icons](https://github.com/tandpfun/skill-icons) but supports arbitrary image URLs. Icons can be SVG, PNG, or JPG.

Example:

![JavaScript – level 4](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=4&size=48)
![TypeScript – level 5](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=ts&level=5&size=48)
![React – level 4](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=4&size=48)
![Convex – level 3](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&level=3&size=48)

## Parameters

| Parameter     | Type   | Required | Description |
| ------------- | ------ | -------- | ----------- |
| `skill`       | string | one of   | Skill name from [skill-icons](https://github.com/tandpfun/skill-icons) or a custom skill (e.g. `convex`). Either `skill` or `image` must be provided. |
| `image`       | string | one of   | URL of an arbitrary icon image. Either `skill` or `image` must be provided. |
| `level`       | number | no       | Proficiency level from **1** to **5**. If omitted, the output contains just the icon (no progress bar). |
| `size`        | number | no       | Output size in pixels. **16–512**, default **48**. |
| `style`       | string | no       | Progress bar style. One of `rounded` (default) or `flat`. |
| `startColor`  | string | no*      | Progress bar gradient start color: 3 or 6 digit hex **without** `#`. Must be used together with `endColor`. |
| `endColor`    | string | no*      | Progress bar gradient end color: 3 or 6 digit hex **without** `#`. Must be used together with `startColor`. |

\* `startColor` and `endColor` must both be provided or both omitted.

## Usage

A public instance is hosted at:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress
```

You can use it directly in markdown or HTML by adding query parameters for your desired skill/image and optional level.

### Basic: skill + level

Using a skill name from [skill-icons](https://github.com/tandpfun/skill-icons):

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5
```

![JavaScript – level 5](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5&size=48)

Other examples:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=ts&level=3
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=4
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&level=2
```

![TypeScript – level 3](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=ts&level=3&size=48)
![React – level 4](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=4&size=48)
![Convex – level 2](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&level=2&size=48)

### Custom image URL

Use any image URL instead of a named skill:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?image=https://example.com/my-icon.svg&level=3
```

### Icon only (no `level`)

Omit `level` to return just the icon:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&size=64
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?image=https://example.com/my-icon.svg
```

![JavaScript icon only](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&size=48)
![Convex icon only](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&size=64)

### Custom output size

Control the output size (16–512 px, default 48):

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=4&size=64
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=5&size=128
```

![JavaScript – level 4, size 64](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=4&size=64)
![React – level 5, size 128](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=5&size=128)

### Custom progress bar colors

Override the default yellow-to-green gradient. Pass 3- or 6-digit hex **without** the `#`; both colors are required:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5&startColor=ff6b6b&endColor=4ecdc4
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=ts&level=5&startColor=f00&endColor=00f
```

![JavaScript – custom colors](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5&startColor=ff6b6b&endColor=4ecdc4&size=48)
![TypeScript – custom colors](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=ts&level=5&startColor=f00&endColor=00f&size=48)

### Progress bar style

Choose between rounded and flat styles. Default is `rounded`:

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5&style=flat
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=4&style=rounded
```

![JavaScript – flat style](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5&style=flat&size=48)
![React – rounded style](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=react&level=4&style=rounded&size=48)

### Combined example

```
https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&level=4&size=96&startColor=667eea&endColor=764ba2
```

![Convex – combined example](https://skill-progress.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=convex&level=4&size=96&startColor=667eea&endColor=764ba2)

## Development

### Installing dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### Deploy on Netlify (recommended)

The app runs as a Netlify Function. Deploy by connecting this repo to [Netlify](https://netlify.com); build command and functions are configured in `netlify.toml`.

- **Function URL:** `/.netlify/functions/progress`
- **Example:** `https://your-site.netlify.app/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5`

Test locally with Netlify CLI:

```bash
npm run netlify:dev
# Then open http://localhost:8888/.netlify/functions/progress?skill=js&level=5
```

### Local Express server

Run the classic Express server for local development:

```bash
npm run dev
# Then open http://localhost:3000/progress?skill=js&level=5
```

## Custom skill icons

Custom icons are those not in the official skill-icons repo (maintainers have stopped accepting PRs). Additional icons are welcome via PRs to this repo.

| Name    | Image |
| ------- | ----- |
| `convex` | <img src="img/Convex-Dark.svg" width="48"></img> |

## Planned improvements

Done:
- [x] Allow custom progress bar colors
- [x] Custom output size (generate at 48×48 then resize)
- [x] Cache skill-icons
- [x] Native support for [simple-icons](https://github.com/simple-icons/simple-icons)
- [x] Allow icon-only output when `level` is omitted

New Features:
- [ ] Add more custom icons (can scrape the PRs on the skill-icons repo and add all the icons that the maintainer won't accept on that project, also can add icons from [https://dashboardicons.com/](https://dashboardicons.com/))
- [ ] Allow for labels and use of emojis as progress bar [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24768630/is-there-a-way-to-show-a-progressbar-on-github-wiki/61857070#61857070](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24768630/is-there-a-way-to-show-a-progressbar-on-github-wiki/61857070#61857070)
- [ ] Generate SVGs from scratch so that any percentage can be used, instead of just the 1-5 steps.
- [ ] Add support for additional input image types (webp, etc.)
- [ ] Vertical progress bar option (to left/right of image).
- [ ] Base route should redirect to project homepage on github instead of 404

Cache:
- [ ] Store expiration time of cache instead of calculating on every request.
- [ ] Garbage collect expired cache entries even if they have not been requested and refreshed.
- [ ] Upper bounds on cache size, delete oldest entries when size limit reached.

Maintenance:
- [ ] Create YAML forms for issue template [https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/syntax-for-issue-forms](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/syntax-for-issue-forms) example: [https://github.com/simple-icons/simple-icons/blob/develop/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/icon_request.yml](https://github.com/simple-icons/simple-icons/blob/develop/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/icon_request.yml)
